you know i actually hate these videos
whenever people make
youtube videos where like i'm quitting
youtube i need to move on
better passions and whatnot usually the
reason is because they're not getting
views anymore and their their channels
dead and they just suck at making
content
what was probably even more naive was
not understanding
just how difficult it is to get you know
famous on youtube
i mean the concept of having you know 50
or 100 000 subscribers on youtube is
just
it's not an easy thing to do it's
extremely difficult
uh to get known on youtube if you're not
already established now
this is my official goodbye
to youtube i can't live that life
anymore
i've been doing youtube for nine years i
started when i was
around 13. my youtube channel has always
been
my life expressed on onto this channel
then i went to college and i made some
college videos then
i left school to pursue youtube 100
i loved that time like i was really
you know live eat breathe youtube it was
my whole heart
my whole life my whole passion all i
wanted to talk about all i wanted to do
all i wanted to think about was youtube
what could i create next and how could
it be bigger and how could it be better
yeah i mean you know for the most part
it's just uh
reminding yourself that you know
you're you're on the right path i think
a lot of people get depressed because
they lose the idea of what they want to
do
and i feel like a lot of people are
depressed because they don't know what
they want to do
you know it's like um
you know a lot of people like for me
like once i found out that i'm like okay
i want to do youtube
full time i want to be famous i
you know like that kind of stuck in my
head i was like okay
we're doing this from now on we're not
going back to a normal job
uh we're gonna do youtube we're gonna do
this online [ __ ] hardcore
you know we're gonna put every we're
gonna put all of our chips in one basket
for this stuff
and then eventually when we make enough
money from this stuff then we'll branch
out
to investments and real estate and other
businesses so when
we have a big scandal or something we
can uh
[Music]
[Applause]
if you aren't in love with making videos
and you're not in love with growing a
youtube channel it's not your main thing
and you're doing it for fun
the fun really gets sucked out of it
which makes making videos for me almost
pointless because i'm
doing it mostly for fun and i'm not
allowed to make videos that i enjoy
making or videos that i find fun
if it's not fun there's no reason really
to do it i know a lot of people probably
don't want to hear this
because you know they think of youtube
as being you know a hobby enthusiast
thing
um but truthfully at my age
i just can't put that much time into
something that brings in so little money
youtube is not the problem i am the
problem i
am the problem what first started as
this passion
and this love like this deep love of
creating just turned into this treadmill
and i started to despise it everyone in
the comments would always just be
against me and take
their side it just started getting
really annoying it just felt like
everyone was all
always automatically against me and just
wanted to disagree with everything i was
saying
i hate them really to be honest all i
can say is i really really hate
most my audience because they're not
nice
i really do hate them and they kind of
ruined youtube for me because
i used to really enjoy making videos i
used to enjoy opening myself up and
being
raw and genuine and honest and telling
you guys about what i already think of
about things and what i get for i just
got a bunch of
idiots in the comments section
having a go at me nagging me calling me
this and that
and it just yeah i guess it it kind of
got to me i didn't want
youtube to be my passion anymore or my
life i didn't want to be thinking about
it all the time i wanted it to be
a job i wanted it to be like a
nine-to-five job
where i go in i make my videos i come
home i go to work
act like i'm chloe couture and then i
come home and
i can be myself and i can be free but
yeah it became really really hard
to the point where every time i filmed a
video
it would feel like my soul was dying
my soul was dying it just felt like a
piece of me was dying
every time one of the questions raised
briefly in recent videos i made about
left-wing politics
was of how we live our lives with
assumptions
about the future in the case of our
motivations
for making youtube videos our
motivations for coming on the internet
sharing our lives on the internet
there's no doubt that the assumption
that fame is an inevitable outcome
of these efforts you're making that
sooner or later all of this will pay off
that you
yes you will become famous by sharing
your life on youtube
that distorts how we live our life
at present in much the same way as the
left-wing political views i was
criticizing
they condition people to think about
future utopias
future outcomes that are actually much
less likely
they're much more improbable than what
we're talking about achieving here on
youtube
and in ways seen and unseen they change
the way we feel about our lives
they change the way we're living our
lives here and now now
this point about fame from my
perspective
it actually has direct implications for
how we think about
happiness also right
imagine you knew someone who decided to
have
a kid and then they come to you and
complain one day
that they don't even see the point
they're going to give the kid up for
adoption
because they just had a kid to make
themselves happy
and and they're not even happy it didn't
work they didn't get the outcome
it may sound ridiculous you probably
will know a few people in your life who
are only slightly less ridiculous than
that or only slightly less
honest and you might say this person
wait a minute wait a minute
you're telling me you had a kid
just to be happy
in a very meaningful sense that's crazy
didn't someone tell you didn't you ever
think through the extent to which having
a kid might make you unhappy
might make you miserable might make you
you know really regret many things in
your life
think about the sacrifice think about
the sorrow and the suffering
and at best even if you contextualize
that happiness
wouldn't you see having a kid as being a
mix of joy and sorrow
you know labor and reward like the
happiness is is one little piece of the
mosaic but it's not the whole picture
it's actually really fundamentally crazy
to have a kid
due to happiness i think it's also crazy
to not have a kid because of happiness
and it's crazy to give away your kid put
your kid up for adoption to have someone
else raise them
because of that idea of happiness in a
lot the same way
a lot of them keep it fine in much the
same way
you know um to do what we're doing here
on youtube
um because of the presumption of fame as
an outcome
it's just plain crazy now i've got to
tell you something
the model i have advanced for why
you and you and you should take the time
to come on youtube
has nothing to do with fame has nothing
to do with money
it has nothing to do with my unholy list
of five terrible motivations that shaped
the internet as we know it today
what is it say say that with me now
money fame
power respect sex not necessarily
in that order has nothing to do with any
of those you know i think the way
to think about youtube and the way to
think about publishing
on social media on the internet is to
compare it to a conversation
you have in a coffee shop okay
i had a conversation with aaron janus
the other day
it was more than an hour long
and at the end of it my girlfriend asked
me was a lot of effort
a lot of acne at the end of it my
girlfriend asked me wow so did you
record that
i said no that was just
a conversation with somebody i know
you know that's it you know how
it was much more effort to have that one
conversation with someone who happens to
be a youtuber
than the average video maker and i know
i mean i just understand the situation
like my girlfriend just
assumed because i was kind of putting
all this effort out of this conversation
and reaching out to this person and
you know there's different kind of
emotional elements to it like
you know this this must be a youtube
video this must be for an audience of
whether it's 500 people or 5 000 people
this must be for somebody other than
it's like no no i did this just for this
person
who asked to talk to me and of course
when you guys think about it unless you
have absolutely no
friends in this world most of you in the
audience you probably do that all the
time
and you don't think of it as an
extraordinary effort and maybe it is
you know maybe it's actually worth
pausing to reflect on your social life
and how much
energy and emotion and even creativity
you put into your social life and
evaluate that in terms of its outcomes
but you know nobody is going to look at
that and say oh
i had a one hour conversation with a
friend of mine today
or a colleague or a friend of me or an
outright enemy you had a one-hour
conversation with somebody
and now to evaluate it like well was
that effort worth it
you know for an audience of just one
person
right if you're uploading to youtube is
it worth it for only 500 people
is it worth it for only 50 000 people
one of the guys that quoted this video
he was complaining that he
he just sees no point in making the
effort to be emotionally honest on
youtube
if it's only for 30 000 people 30 000
people is just
not enough you know to to justify
you know that that effort that
soul-searching that honesty but we all
know if you're going to a coffee shop
to meet a friend face-to-face the
judgment you're making is that
that one friend uh
is worth it so from the first day i came
on youtube
you know that was the model i was
playing by i had a
long period of time of trying to use
youtube
to make friends to have colleagues to
contribute to the future of the vegan
movement
as a political cause a long period of
time trying to use youtube just to give
a specific example
to try to find talented hard-working
people
who could do the illustrations for a
children's storybook i wanted to publish
one example there were all kinds of
talented people i was hoping to meet and
and hoping to work with and the whole
time i was surrounded by these
misconceptions
were addressing this video i was
surrounded by people
who thought that fame was easy on
youtube
god always remember that it was more
than an hour long conversation with that
guy
he was a phd student in math and he just
thought everything i was doing was wrong
and his whole perspective
was that getting up to hundreds of
thousands and millions of views was
something he could do dropping out if he
was lecturing me about everything i was
doing was wrong he had
zero experience on youtube he gave up
after three months
that guy he lost uh he lost faith in his
own
surrounded by people who thought the
fame and the money
was easy or was guaranteed to them
if they made these sacrifices if they if
they made this effort
and from my perspective
uh i think that is just as crazy as
believing that you can get famous
by having a conversation with your
friends at a coffee shop no
that never happens but it is so
wildly improbable that you can't live in
the present tense
you can't live your life today um
in the shadow of that idea about one
possible
idealized highly improbable future